---
layout: page
title: --  AU-6 AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING 
parent: . 3.3 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
nav_order: 3360 
---

## AU-6 AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING

<ins>Control</ins>:

* a. Review and analyze system audit records [ _Assignment: organization-defined frequency_ ] for indications of [ _Assignment: organization-defined inappropriate or unusual activity_ ] and the potential impact of the inappropriate or unusual activity;
* b. Report findings to [ _Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles_ ]; and
* c. Adjust the level of audit record review, analysis, and reporting within the system when there is a change in risk based on law enforcement information, intelligence information, or other credible sources of information.

<ins>Discussion</ins>: Audit record review, analysis, and reporting covers information security- and privacy- related logging performed by organizations, including logging that results from the monitoring of account usage, remote access, wireless connectivity, mobile device connection, configuration settings, system component inventory, use of maintenance tools and non-local maintenance, physical access, temperature and humidity, equipment delivery and removal, communications at system interfaces, and use of mobile code or Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). Findings can be reported to organizational entities that include the incident response team, help desk, and security or privacy offices. If organizations are prohibited from reviewing and analyzing audit records or unable to conduct such activities, the review or analysis may be carried out by other organizations granted such authority. The frequency, scope, and/or depth of the audit record review, analysis, and reporting may be adjusted to meet organizational needs based on new information received.

<ins>Related Controls</ins>: AC-2, AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, AC-7, AC-17, AU-7, AU-16, CA-2, CA-7, CM-2, CM-5, CM-6, CM-10, CM-11, IA-2, IA-3, IA-5, IA-8, IR-5, MA-4, MP-4, PE-3, PE-6, RA-5, SA-8, SC-7, SI-3, SI-4, SI-7.

<ins>Control Enhancements</ins>:

* (1) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | AUTOMATED PROCESS INTEGRATION<br>
**Integrate audit record review, analysis, and reporting processes using [ Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms ].**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Organizational processes that benefit from integrated audit record review,
analysis, and reporting include incident response, continuous monitoring, contingency
planning, investigation and response to suspicious activities, and Inspector General audits.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: PM-7.

* (2) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | AUTOMATED SECURITY ALERTS<br>
[Withdrawn: Incorporated into SI-4.]

* (3) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | CORRELATE AUDIT RECORD REPOSITORIES<br>
**Analyze and correlate audit records across different repositories to gain organization-wide situational awareness.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Organization-wide situational awareness includes awareness across all three levels of risk management (i.e., organizational level, mission/business process level, and information system level) and supports cross-organization awareness.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: AU-12, IR-4.

* (4) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | CENTRAL REVIEW AND ANALYSIS<br>
**Provide and implement the capability to centrally review and analyze audit records from multiple components within the system.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Automated mechanisms for centralized reviews and analyses include Security Information and Event Management products.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: AU-2, AU-12.

* (5) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | INTEGRATED ANALYSIS OF AUDIT RECORDS<br>
**Integrate analysis of audit records with analysis of [ _Selection (one or more): vulnerability scanning information; performance data; system monitoring information; [ Assignment: organization-defined data/information collected from other sources ]_] to further enhance the ability to identify inappropriate or unusual activity.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Integrated analysis of audit records does not require vulnerability scanning, the generation of performance data, or system monitoring. Rather, integrated analysis requires that the analysis of information generated by scanning, monitoring, or other data collection activities is integrated with the analysis of audit record information. Security Information and Event Management tools can facilitate audit record aggregation or consolidation from multiple system components as well as audit record correlation and analysis. The use of standardized audit record analysis scripts developed by organizations (with localized script adjustments, as necessary) provides more cost-effective approaches for analyzing audit record information collected. The correlation of audit record information with vulnerability scanning information is important in determining the veracity of vulnerability scans of the system and in correlating attack detection events with scanning results. Correlation with performance data can uncover denial-of-service attacks or other types of attacks that result in the unauthorized use of resources. Correlation with system monitoring information can assist in uncovering attacks and in better relating audit information to operational situations

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: AU-12, IR -4.

* (6) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | CORRELATION WITH PHYSICAL MONITORING<br>
**Correlate information from audit records with information obtained from monitoring physical access to further enhance the ability to identify suspicious, inappropriate, unusual, or malevolent activity.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: The correlation of physical audit record information and the audit records from systems may assist organizations in identifying suspicious behavior or supporting evidence of such behavior. For example, the correlation of an individual’s identity for logical access to certain systems with the additional physical security information that the individual was present at the facility when the logical access occurred may be useful in investigations.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: None.

* (7) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | PERMITTED ACTIONS<br>
**Specify the permitted actions for each [ _Selection (one or more): system process; role; user_ ] associated with the review, analysis, and reporting of audit record information.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Organizations specify permitted actions for system processes, roles, and users associated with the review, analysis, and reporting of audit records through system account management activities. Specifying permitted actions on audit record information is a way to enforce the principle of least privilege. Permitted actions are enforced by the system and include read, write, execute, append, and delete.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: None.

* (8) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | FULL TEXT ANALYSIS OF PRIVILEGED COMMANDS<br>
**Perform a full text analysis of logged privileged commands in a physically distinct component or subsystem of the system, or other system that is dedicated to that analysis.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Full text analysis of privileged commands requires a distinct environment for the analysis of audit record information related to privileged users without compromising such information on the system where the users have elevated privileges, including the capability to execute privileged commands. Full text analysis refers to analysis that considers the full text of privileged commands (i.e., commands and parameters) as opposed to analysis that considers only the name of the command. Full text analysis includes the use of pattern matching and heuristics.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: AU-3, AU-9, AU-11, AU-12.

* (9) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | CORRELATION WITH INFORMATION FROM NONTECHNICAL SOURCES<br>
**Correlate information from nontechnical sources with audit record information to enhance organization-wide situational awareness.**

    <ins>Discussion</ins>: Nontechnical sources include records that document organizational policy violations related to harassment incidents and the improper use of information assets. Such information can lead to a directed analytical effort to detect potential malicious insider activity. Organizations limit access to information that is available from nontechnical sources due to its sensitive nature. Limited access minimizes the potential for inadvertent release of privacy-related information to individuals who do not have a need to know. The correlation of information from nontechnical sources with audit record information generally occurs only when individuals are suspected of being involved in an incident. Organizations obtain legal advice prior to initiating such actions.

    <ins>Related Controls</ins>: PM-12.

* (10) AUDIT RECORD REVIEW, ANALYSIS, AND REPORTING | AUDIT LEVEL ADJUSTMENT<br>
[Withdrawn: Incorporated into AU-6.]

<ins>References</ins>: [SP 800 -86], [SP 800 -101].
